We are on course three and
we're on module three.
And in this module we're going to
take a look at active disk editor.
This is the tool we're going to be
using throughout this path to look
at the data on disk and
the actual system structures.
When we open up at the disk editor,
this is the first screen we're
going to be presented with.
I'd like you to notice here is you
have the option to open a disk.
We can't open a disk image file or
you can look at your own computer.
We have the ability here
to open a physical disk.
If we were to choose, open a desk well
represented with a menu that showed us all
these physical disks
attached to our computer.
So we could go ahead and
open a physical desk.
We also have the option to open a logical
volume as well as open a physical disk.
And we're going to be doing both of
those things and we'll have our walk
through at the end of this module but
we can also open the logical volume and
we do that by selecting the volume and
then clicking open.
One of the nice things about this tool
is it has something called the template
manager which will highlight the data
structures that we want to look at and
there's a drop down arrow.
We can select the type of data we want
to look at that would be a master boot
record with petition table are Nt Fs,
food sectors, fat food sectors.
We're going to look at every single one
of these things throughout this path.
Industrial is going to help us do that.
It has to borrow items which are like
shortcuts that we're going to use to.
We're going to use very often is this
navigation and this go to sector.
Navigation deals with system data
structures such as the boot sector,
a root directory or
other types of data structures that we
may want to look at a master file table.
Whereas go to sector is going
to take us to an actual specific
location on the disk, a numbered sector.
We're going to do our walk
through now inactive disk editor.
So I want you to go ahead and
open active disk editor and
this is what the icon looks like if you
have not downloaded, here's the URL.
Where you could go out and
downloaded from.
So go ahead and pause the video and
download it and open it up and
we will get started.
Okay, we're going to
start artist editor demo.
The first thing we need to
do is open disk editor.
So navigate to the shortcut mayan.
I have down here on my task bar and
we're going to run active disk editor.
Once it opens, we're going to
be presented with the screen and
you can see we can open a disc.
We can open a file.
We can open an image or
we can look at the computer
that the program is installed on for
our purposes.
Right now we're going to go ahead and
open disk and when we do that,
we're going to be presented with
a bunch of disks that we can work with.
We're going to pick whichever
disk you would like to.
I'm going to go ahead and
pick this physical disk and click open.
And when I do that it
opens on my computer And
it opens to sector zero by default.
Now you can see we have our
shortcuts up here on the task bar.
We also have,
I dropped out menu to open the file.
We can add a disk image for navigation.
We have it up here,
you can go to offset sector.
If you click partition table,
it's going to take us right to where we
are the boot sector for the physical disk.
We also have the navigation
shortcuts up here, go to offset,
go to sector and navigate.
We have the two shortcuts again.
And we also have partition table.
We also have the individual partitions.
We can navigate to each of our partitions
that are on our disk that we're
looking at.
One of the tools we're going to use
a lot up here is where templates are.
Now to do this.
When you click the dropdown arrow,
use your scroll
wheel on your mouse because if you
just try to scroll, it disappears.
So when you use the drop down
arrow use your scroll wheel.
So that is how we get to our
different types of templates,
which are going to use quite
a bit during this path.
And we opened a physical disk.
Now let's open a volume
on the physical disk.
So we would go to file, open again and
now I'll scroll down to
the disk that I opened and
I'll pick a drive letter
when I open volume T and
I'll click open and
it opens up the volume.
Now when you're navigating on the physical
disk and we click go to sector,
it's only going to allow
you to navigate in sectors.
I cannot navigate in clusters.
If I click on that,
nothing will happen if I use the extended
volume and I go go to sector.
Now I have the option of
navigating in either sectors or
clusters because I'm in
the logical volume at this point.
And this is just how this
particular tool works.
Now if I want to navigate to a sector,
I'm going to go ahead and
pick a sector number in here.
Type one end I say, okay,
now it's taken me to a sector.
There's not much on this particular drive,
so
you really can't see too much here, but
it will take you to the numbered
sector that you picked if we pick a So
I want to look at the FT
structure the master file table,
I can pick that right from that.
Drop down menu and
will take me right to the start of
the Master file table and see here.
I'm set on.
If we look at our template
were set on NTS boot sector,
we would have to turn around and
pick The one We wanted and
it is not a master boot record,
this is a master file sale.
So we need to find the template for the
master file table, a Master file record.
So we're going to be looking for and
TFS file record and we click that.
It gives us the correct template for
the m f t file record.
And if we ever needed to set the position,
we can set the template
position by just right clicking and
clicking, set template position.
And this shows us the structure
of this file record.
We're going to cover what all this data
on this disk means throughout this path.
But I just want to show you
how to use this tool from
the drop down options,
the quick access menu or
from the file navigation,
open file in the template.
How to use the templates.